.TH EDGE_BACKUP.SH 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
edge_backup.sh
\-
create RCS based archives for edge configurations
.SH PACKAGE
.ad
.fi
UNItools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad
.fi
edge_backup.sh [-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
\fCedge_backup.sh(1)\fR is a poor mans backup program for SofaWare edge
Appliances managed through a service centre.

\fCedge_backup.sh(1)\fR is intented to run periodically from \fCcron(1)\fR
on the \fIservice centre\fR which also might host the \fImanagemet
center\fR. The \fIinternal IP address\fR of the edge is reachable
through the VPN tunnel.

The script is intented to run from \fCcron(1)\fR as the user \fCadmin\fR
on the \fIservice center\fR.

The recommended \fCcrontab(5)\fR is shown below:
.nf \fC
minutes  hours  day-of-month  month  day-of-week command
00 7-23 * * * /var/opt/UNItools/bin/edge_backup.sh >/dev/null 2>&
.fi \fP

.SH OPTIONS
.ad
.fi
.IP \fC-v\fR
Print diagnostic output to STDOUT.
.SH FILES
.ad
.fi
The config file should be located in \fC$HOME/etc/edge_backup.cfg\fR.
The config file is a shell script containing one variable:
.nf \fC

 LIST_OF_INSIDE_IPADDRS="
 #
 # carefull here be dragons
 #
 # ipv4addr     login_user      login_passwd    edge_admin_port
 #
 172.28.11.1    admin           1qazxsw2        981
 "

.fi \fP
The format is shown above. Blank lines and linies beginning with
\fC#\fR are ignored.
.SH COMMANDS
.ad
.fi
\fCbash(1)\fR, \fCsed(1)\fR, \fCwget(1)\fR, etc.
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad
.fi
The Wiki at http://info.ssi.uni-c.dk.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Diagnostic putput is written to syslog. No further information
is provided in case of error(s).
.SH KNOWN BUGS AND LIMITATIONS
.ad
.fi
IP addresses for edge appliances must be maintained both in the
object database and the configuration file.
.SH VERSION
.na
.nf
$Date: 2011/09/07 11:27:54 $
.br
$Revision: 1.2 $
.br
$Source: /lan/ssi/projects/UNItools/src/SPLAT/NGX/pkgs/edge_backup/edge_backup-1.0/edge_backup.sh,v $
.br
$State: Exp $
.SH HISTORY
.ad
.fi
See rlog $Source: /lan/ssi/projects/UNItools/src/SPLAT/NGX/pkgs/edge_backup/edge_backup-1.0/edge_backup.sh,v $
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.ad
.fi
Niels Thomas Haugård
.br
E-mail: niels.thomas.haugaard@uni-c.dk
.br
UNI\(buC
.br
Professional Security and Service
.br
Danish Technical University, bldg 304
.br
DK-2800 Lyngby, Denmark
