.TH UNIFWBU.SH 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
UNIfwbu.sh
\-
Wrapper for Check Point backup
.SH "PACKAGE"
.na
.nf
UNItools
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.na
.nf
UNIfwbu.sh [-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
Simple wrapper for Check Point backup on Secure Platform R65
and beyond. Tested on R75.

Creates /var/CPbackup/RESTORE_INFORMATION with a number of
documents describing the hardware, installed software and
version(s) and builds a restore procedure (README file).

The script add a number of files to the Check Point backup
procedure.

The script \fCUNIfwbu.sh(1)\fR preserves the backup procedure
configuration file as \fCsystem_configuration.cpbak.org\fR
in the same directory as the current configuration file.

\fCUNIfwbu.sh(1)\fR is installed as part of the package
\fBUNItools\fR.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.na
.nf
.TP
\fC-v\fR
Verbose - print diagnostic output to the screen.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.na
.nf
\fCbash(1)\fR, \fCsed(1)\fR, \fCawk(1)\fR and \fCbackup<fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nf
Documentation for UNItools and Check Point backup
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
None.
.SH BUGS
.ad
.fi
The Check Point backup fails if it detects that the CPMI process
is running.  Please close all GUI clients before backup.
.SH "VERSION"
.na
.nf
$Date: 2013/06/27 10:39:40 $
.br
$Revision: 1.4 $
.br
$Source: /root/personal/nth/pkgs/fwbu/fwbu/RCS/UNIcpfwbu.sh,v $
.br
$State: Exp $
.SH "HISTORY"
.na
.nf
See \fCrlog\fR $Id: UNIcpfwbu.sh,v 1.4 2013/06/27 10:39:40 root Exp $
.SH "AUTHOR(S)"
.na
.nf
Niels Thomas Haugård
.br
E-mail: thomas@haugaard.net
.br
UNI\(buC
.br
DTU, Building 304
.br
DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby
