=head1 ActivePerl 5.8 Change Log

For the latest information on ActivePerl, please see:

    http://www.ActiveState.com/ActivePerl/

=head2 Build 815 Thursday, Nov 2, 2005

Build 815 is based on Perl 5.8.7.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

The PerlEx plugin for IIS has been added to ActivePerl for Windows.
It caches precompiled CGI scripts in memory to increase their
performance.

=item *

The table of contents for the HTML documentation has been reverted
back to the format used before build 813 (it no longer requires
JavaScript to be enabled).

=item *

ExtUtils::MakeMaker now generates and installs HTML documentation
automatically.  Regardless how modules are being installed (via PPM,
through the CPAN shell, or by manual compilation and installation),
the HTML documentation is always kept up-to-date.

=item *

Code snippets in the HTML documentation are syntax colored.  This
feature is currently only available on Windows and Mac OS X.

=item *

ActiveState::Scineplex has been added on Windows and Mac OS X.  This
module analyzes source code for various programming languages and is
being used to colorize the code snippets in the HTML documentation.

=item *

The ActivePerl::Config module has been added. It allows perl's
configuration options to be overridden.  The module can also
automatically reconfigure ActivePerl for alternative compilation
environments when the default compiler cannot be found.

On Windows, MakeMaker will use the F<gcc.exe> compiler from MinGW and
the F<dmake.exe> utility if the Microsoft Visual C++ compiler
F<cl.exe> and the F<nmake.exe> utility are not available on the
PATH. This will also work automatically from within the CPAN shell.

=item *

The F<perl-static> executable on Unix will now pick up a matching
Config.pm (there is no statically linked Perl on Windows).

=item *

File::Path's rmtree() function has been replaced to address
security vulnerability CAN-2005-0448.

=item *

Fixed incompatiblity problem with Tk and Encode version 2.10 which was
introduced in build 813 (perl-5.8.7).

=item *

Win32::GetOSName() can now identify Windows Vista.

=item *

Various ActiveState::* utility modules have been added.

=item *

libwin32 has been updated to version 0.26:

=over 8

=item *

Win32API::File

New GetFileAttributes() function and corresponding constants.

Added GetFileSize(), getFileSize(), setFilePointer(), and
GetOverlappedResult() functions. The file position operations can use
Math::BigInt objects.

Experimental new object oriented interface added. This will be moved
into a separate module in a later release.

=item *

Win32API::Registry

Added DELETE/READ_CONTROL/WRITE_DAC/WRITE_OWNER/SYNCHRONIZE as KEY_*.

=item *

Win32::Clipboard

GetBitmap() should now work correctly with 1 bit, 4 bit, 8 bit,
16 bit, 24 bit, and 32 bit colors.

=item *

Win32::Console

Renamed GRAY to LIGHTGRAY and added definitions for the "real" GRAY
colors.

Added get_Win32_IPC_HANDLE() method so that Win32::IPC can wait
on a console handle.

Added SetIcon() method to change the icon of the window.

Don't export the scalar variables to %main:: but into the callers
namespace.

=item *

Win32::Process

Added get_Win32_IPC_HANDLE() method for Win32::IPC compatibility.

Added STILL_ACTIVE constant for GetExitCode().

Win32::Process::Open() now records the process ID correctly
for GetProcessID().  It also creates handle now that can be
used with the Wait() method.

=item *

Win32::Shortcut

The Save() function now calls Win32::GetLongPathName() on the filename
to make sure to use a fully qualified pathname.

The Save() will store the new filename as the 'File' property unless
the Shortcut object already has a 'File' property.

=back

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.26
    Archive-Zip-1.16
    Compress-Zlib-1.41
    HTML-Parser-3.46
    IO-String-1.07
    Mac-Apps-Launch-1.92
    Mac-OSA-Simple-1.09
    Time-HiRes-1.76
    Unicode-String-1.09

=back

=head2 Build 814 Beta Tuesday, Jun 28, 2005

Build 814 Beta is based on Perl 5.8.7.  This release is provided as a
Windows MSI installer only.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

Bundled PerlEx, an ISAPI plugin for the IIS web server.

=item *

Built in ActivePerl:: module providing version information.

=item *

The C<gedi> program now actually runs.  This is a demo program
installed by the C<Tk> package.

=item *

Text-Autoformat module updated to version 1.13.

=back

=head2 Build 813 Tuesday, Jun 7, 2005

Build 813 is based on Perl 5.8.7.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

ActivePerl is now supported on the Mac OS X, Solaris (x86), and AIX platforms.

=item *

New improved HTML documentation which requires JavaScript enabled
browser.

=item *

Installation of the HTML documentation is now optional.

=item *

Perl 5.8.7 has been incorporated.  See L<perl587delta.pod> for a list of changes.

=item *

ActivePerl will now evaluate 'sitecustomize.pl' at startup if present.
The ActivePerl distribution does not ship with this file, but it is a
hook that the system administrator can use to set up set up additional
site specific @INC entries.

=item *

Fixed Net::Ping's ICMP implementation to not give up waiting for the
echo reply until it either receives an unreachable reply or times out.
Previous versions would for instance give up if they received a source
quench reply.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.23
    Compress-Zlib-1.34
    Convert-ASN1-0.19 (only for HP-UX)
    HTML-Parser-3.45
    HTML-Tagset-3.04
    libwww-perl-5.803
    XML-Simple-2.14

=item *

New modules

    Mac-AppleEvents-Simple-1.17
    Mac-Apps-Launch-1.91
    Mac-Carbon-0.74
    Mac-Errors-1.10
    Mac-Glue-1.25
    Mac-OSA-Simple-1.08
    MLDBM-2.01 (only for Mac OS X)
    Text-Autoformat-1.12
    Text-Reform-1.11
    Time-Epoch-0.02 (only for Mac OS X)
    Unicode-String-2.07

The "Mac-" modules are only present for Mac OS X as well.

=item *

The ActiveState-Rx module has been dropped from the distribution.

=back

=head2 Build 812 Monday, Jan 10, 2005

Build 812 is based on Perl 5.8.6.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

On Unix, provide a destructor for libperl.  This allows libperl to be
repeatedly loaded and unloaded by e.g. mod_perl without running out of
thread local storage slots.  On Windows this was already handled
correctly.

=item *

The reloc_perl -a option has been fixed.  It is now possible to relocate
from a shorter to a longer path.

=back

=head2 Build 811 Wednesday, Dec 1, 2004

Build 811 is based on Perl 5.8.6.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

Perl 5.8.6 has been incorporated.  See L<perl585delta.pod> and
L<perl586delta> for a list of changes.

=item *

Fixed stack corruption in the Tk-804.027 module.  This would sometimes
make Tk programs crash.

=item *

Fixed handling of Unicode in XML-DOM-1.43.  Some Unicode strings would
end up UTF-8 encoded when they should not be.  The XML::DOM module is
only distributed as part of ActivePerl on HP-UX.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.22
    Data-Dump-1.06
    Digst-MD4-1.4
    Encode-2.09 
    HTML-Parser-3.38
    IO-Zlib-1.04
    libwin32-0.24 (only for Windows)
    libwww-perl-5.801
    libxml-perl-0.08 (only for HP-UX)
    perl-ldap-0.3202
    URI-1.35

In addition, IO::String version 1.06 is now included with
ActivePerl.

=back

=head2 Build 810 Monday, Jun 7, 2004

Build 810 is based on Perl 5.8.4.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

Perl 5.8.4 has been incorporated.  See L<perl584delta> for a list
of changes.

=item *

The default install location on Unix is now F</opt/ActivePerl-5.8>.
Earlier versions installed into F</usr/local/ActivePerl-5.8> by
default.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.08
    Compress-Zlib-1.33
    Data-Dump-1.03
    Digest-SHA1-2.10
    File-CounterFile-1.04
    Font-AFM-1.19
    HTML-Parser-3.36
    libwww-perl-5.79
    MD5-2.03
    perl-ldap-0.31 (only for HP-UX))
    Tk-804.027
    URI-1.30
    XML-Simple-2.12
    XML-XSLT-0.48 (only for HP-UX))

=back

=head2 Build 809 Monday, Feb 2, 2004

Build 809 is based on Perl 5.8.3.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

Perl 5.8.3 has been incorporated.  See L<perl583delta> for a list
of changes.

=item *

The Win32 module now includes the Win32::IsAdminUser() function that
checks if the current interpreter runs with Administrator privileges.

=item *

The access violations of detached threads on thread exit have been
fixed.

=item *

Time::HiRes now provides high resolution on Windows too.

=back

=head2 Build 808 Thursday, Dec 6, 2003

Build 808 is based on Perl 5.8.2.

I<Changes>

=over 8

=item *

Perl 5.8.2 has been incorporated.  See L<perl582delta> for a list of
changes.

ActivePerl build 808 is still being compiled with the
C<-DNO_HASH_SEED> option to maintain binary compatibility with earlier
releases.  Perl 5.8.2 implements a new rehashing scheme that will kick
in dynamically based on the actual data being stored in a hash.  This
new scheme is backwards compatible and is enabled in ActivePerl build
808.

=item *

The following modules are bundled with ActivePerl for HP-UX and have
been updated to their latest versions:

    Convert-ASN1-0.18
    XML-DOM-1.43
    XML-XPath-1.13
    XML-XSLT-0.45
    perl-ldap-0.30

=back

=head2 Build 807 Thursday, Nov 6, 2003

Build 807 is based on Perl 5.8.1.  This is the first release of ActivePerl
based on this new maintenance release of Perl.  This release is meant for
use in production systems.  However, owing to the sheer volume of changes
between Perl 5.8.0 and 5.8.1 that have been incorporated, please be sure
to test it thoroughly in a non-critical environment before you upgrade
your production systems.

Please check L<perl581delta> for a list of the major changes in Perl.
Only additional changes specific to ActivePerl are mentioned here.

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

Perl 5.8.1 has been incorporated.  See L<perl581delta> for a list of changes.

B<Important note:> The new I<Hash Randomisation> feature has been
disabled in ActivePerl because it is not compatible with Perl 5.8.0.
If we enabled this feature then some modules compiled with 5.8.0 would
not work correctly with 5.8.1 and most modules compiled with 5.8.1
would not work at all with Perl 5.8.0.  This would require maintaining
separate PPM module repositories for 5.8.0 and 5.8.1.

To enable the I<Hash Randomisation> feature you must recompile
ActivePerl from source and remove the C<-DNO_HASH_SEED> definition
from the C compiler options.  In that case you must compile all CPAN
modules yourself too because the PPM repository binaries will not be
compatible.

=item *

Windows 2003 Server is now officially supported.  The installer adds
entries to the IIS6 "Web Services Extensions" list for both "Perl CGI"
and "Perl ISAPI".  Both are set to "Prohibited" by default and must
be explicitly changed to "Allow" in the IIS Manager.

Win32::GetOSName() detects the release version of Windows 2003
correctly.

=item *

ActiveState::Rx module has been included.  This module is necessary to
use the Rx Toolkit in ActiveState Visual Perl.  You must upgrade
Visual Perl to version 1.8.1 to use the Rx Toolkit with Perl 5.8.

=item *

Many bundled modules have been updated to their latest versions:

    Archive-Tar-1.07
    Compress-Zlib-1.22
    Data-Dump-1.01
    Digest-MD2-2.03
    Digest-MD5-2.30
    Digest-SHA1-2.06
    File-CounterFile-1.01
    HTML-Parser-3.34
    HTML-Tree-3.18
    URI-1.27
    XML-Parser-2.34
    XML-Simple-2.09
    libwin32-0.21
    libwww-perl-5.75

In addition, IO::Zlib version 1.01 is now included with ActivePerl.

=back

I<PPM>

=over 8

=item *

The I<upgrade> command has been fixed.

=item *

It is now possible to install from a file URL while not being
connected to the internet.

=item *

PPM now works on Windows even when the Term::InKey module is
installed.

=back

I<Perl for ISAPI>

=over 8

=item *

Perl for ISAPI no longer uses line buffering for STDOUT.  This is
especially important for running under IIS6 which bypasses TCP/IP
nagling and directly sends every packet individually.

=item *

Perl for ISAPI used to close all open file handles before shutting
down the Perl interpreter.  The intention was to prevent file handle
leaks from buggy Perl scripts while running inside the IIS process.
Unfortunately Perl may still execute END blocks or call DESTROY
methods during final destruction and some file handles may get closed
twice in this scenario.

This creates a race condition: the file handle may already have been
re-opened by a different thread before the second close happens.  Perl
then closes a file handle it doesn't own anymore.  This may cause a
different page request to fail.

To avoid this race condition Perl for ISAPI will no longer try to
automatically close open file handles.  Therefore it is possible that
broken Perl applications will now start leaking file handles if they
don't close them correctly themselves.

=back

=head2 Build 806 Monday, March 31, 2003

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

Several bug fixes and other improvements have been merged from the
Perl development track.  In particular, many of these fixes address
problems in the PerlIO implementation.  See the ActivePerl source
code diff for the complete list of included changes.

=item *

Other minor bug fixes and documentation updates.

=back

I<PPM>

PPM has been upgraded to version 3.1.  It fixes most of the known
problems, including:

=over 8

=item *

PPM 3.1 now provides all the functionality of PPM 2.0 and 3.0.
PPM 2.0 is therefore no longer included in ActivePerl 5.8.

=item *

PPM now works correctly through a proxy server requiring basic
authentication.  Previous versions of PPM 3.0 only supported
proxy servers that did not require authentication.

=item *

PPM is now more robust in handling user-defined repository URLs.
For instance, URLs with a trailing slash no longer result in
fatal errors.

=item *

Support for ASPN Perl profiles has been much improved.  However,
at the time of this writing, the ActivePerl 5.8 repositories
do not yet support profiles.  This is expected to become available
shortly.

=item *

In previous versions of PPM 3, incorrect search results from the
repository (such as package names that do not have corresponding
PPD files) could crash the PPM3 client.  PPM now generates meaningful
error messages under these circumstances.

=back

=head2 Build 805 Thursday, Feb 6, 2003

I<Bug Fixes and Changes>

=over 8

=item *

Several bug fixes and other improvements have been merged from the
Perl development track.  In particular, many of these fixes address
weaknesses in Unicode support.  See the ActivePerl source code diff
for the complete list of included changes.

=item *

Bugs in the Perl 5.8 integration of Perl for ISAPI and PerlScript
that resulted in failure to flush output correctly at the termination
of the script have been fixed.

=item *

On Windows, system() and backticks could return invalid status when
running under environments where the process has to handle Windows
messages.  PerlScript and Perl for ISAPI fall under this category.
The problem has been corrected.

=item *

On Windows, PerlScript and Perl for ISAPI were affected by a reentrancy
problem, which meant that recursive invocation of these two engines
could fail.  This problem has been corrected.

=item *

Tk and libwww-perl has been updated to their latest versions.

=item *

Win32::Shortcut no longer calls CoUninitialize() within an END block.
This avoids random coredumps from this module when its DESTROY methods
happen to get called after the END block executes.

=item *

PPM v2 and v3 can now optionally generate HTML documentation when
installing packages if POD documentation is found in the package.
This is controlled by the rebuildhtml option in PPM v2 and the
rebuild-html option in PPM v3.

=item *

Other minor bug fixes and documentation updates.

=back

=head2 Build 804 Friday, Nov 29, 2002

I<What's new in the 800 Series>

=over 8

=item *

This build corresponds to the Perl 5.8.0 source code release.

=item *

The 800 series builds of ActivePerl are not binary compatible with
builds in the 500 or 600 series.  Any extensions built using binaries
from the ActivePerl 500 or 600 series will need to be recompiled.
Note especially that this applies to PPM packages that may have been
built for 500 or 600 series builds.

=item *

Significant changes that have occurred in the 5.8.0 release
are documented in L<perl58delta>.

=item *

Support has been enabled for large file access on all platforms,
meaning that file manipulation facilities within perl can cope with
files larger than 2GB or 4GB.

=item *

Many new modules are included as a standard part of perl 5.8.0.  See
"Modules and Pragmata" in L<perl58delta> for a detailed list.
In addition, the Data::Dump module is now included with ActivePerl.
Many other modules have been updated to their latest versions.

=item *

PPM v3 is now included as the default C<ppm> executable.  PPM v2
continues to be available, and can be executed as C<ppm2>.

=back

