.ds Rv 5.8
.ds Dt 2011-08-30
.ds i \&\s-1ISO\s0
.ds r \&\s-1RCS\s0
.ds u \&\s-1UTC\s0
.ds o \*r file
.TH RCSFREEZE 1 "\*(Dt" "GNU RCS \*(Rv"
.SH NAME
rcsfreeze \- freeze a configuration of sources checked in under RCS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rcsfreeze
.RI [ "name" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rcsfreeze
assigns a symbolic revision
number to a set of \*os that form a valid configuration.
.PP
The idea is to run
.B rcsfreeze
each time a new version is checked
in.  A unique symbolic name (\c
.BI C_ number,
where
.I number
is increased each time
.B rcsfreeze
is run) is then assigned to the most
recent revision of each \*o of the main trunk.
.PP
An optional
.I name
argument to
.B rcsfreeze
gives a symbolic name to the configuration.
The unique identifier is still generated
and is listed in the log file but it will not appear as
part of the symbolic revision name in the actual \*os.
.PP
A log message is requested from the user for future reference.
.PP
The shell script works only on all \*os at one time.
All changed files must be checked in already.
Run
.IR rcsclean (1)
first and see whether any sources remain in the current directory.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B RCS/.rcsfreeze.ver
version number
.TP
.B RCS/.rcsfreeze.log
log messages, most recent first
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B \s-1RCSINIT\s0
Options prepended to the argument list, separated by spaces.
A backslash escapes spaces within an option.
The
.B \s-1RCSINIT\s0
options are prepended to the argument lists of most \*r commands.
Useful
.B \s-1RCSINIT\s0
options include
.BR \-q ,
.BR \-V ,
.BR \-x ,
and
.BR \-z .
.TP
.B \s-1RCS_MEM_LIMIT\s0
An integer
.IR lim ,
measured in kilobytes, specifying the threshold under
which commands will try to use memory-based operations for
processing the \*o.
(For \*os of size
.I lim
kilobytes or greater,
RCS will use the slower standard input/output routines.)
Default value is 256.
.TP
.B \s-1TMPDIR\s0
Name of the temporary directory.
If not set, the environment variables
.B \s-1TMP\s0
and
.B \s-1TEMP\s0
are inspected instead and the first value found is taken;
if none of them are set,
a host-dependent default is used, typically
.BR /tmp .
.SH AUTHOR
Stephan v. Bechtolsheim
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR co (1),
.BR rcs (1),
.BR rcsclean (1),
.BR rlog (1).
.PP
Walter F. Tichy,
\*r\*-A System for Version Control,
.I "Software\*-Practice & Experience"
.BR 15 ,
7 (July 1985), 637-654.
.SH BUGS
.B rcsfreeze
does not check whether any sources are checked out and modified.
.PP
Although both working and \*r file names are accepted,
they are not paired as usual with RCS commands.
.PP
Error checking is rudimentary.
.PP
.B rcsfreeze
is just an optional example shell script, and should not be taken too seriously.
See \s-1CVS\s0 for a more complete solution.
