.TH sg_get_network_io_stats 3 $Date:\ 2005/04/25\ 11:25:45\ $ i\-scream 
.SH NAME
sg_get_network_io_stats, sg_get_network_io_stats_diff \- get network statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <statgrab.h>
.fi
.sp 1
.PP
sg_network_io_stats *\fIsg_get_network_io_stats\fR(int *\fIentries\fR);
.PP
sg_network_io_stats *\fIsg_get_network_io_stats_diff\fR(int *\fIentries\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Both calls take a pointer to an int,
entries, which is filled with the number
of network interfaces the machine has. This is needed to know how
many sg_network_io_stats structures have been
returned. A pointer is returned to the first
sg_network_io_stats.
.PP
sg_get_network_io_stats returns the network
traffic stored in the kernel which holds the amount of data
transferred since bootup. On some platforms, such as Solaris 7,
this value is stored in a 32bit int, so wraps around when it
reaches 4GB. Other platforms, such as Solaris 8, hold the value
in a 64bit int, which wraps somewhere near 17 million terabytes.
.PP
sg_get_network_io_stats also returns the number
of packets sent and received, and the number of errors that
have occured. It also makes the number of collisions available.
.PP
sg_get_network_io_stats_diff is the same as
sg_get_network_io_stats except it will return the
difference since the last call. So, for instance a call to
sg_get_network_io_stats_diff is made, and called
again 5 seconds later. Over that time, 20 bytes of traffic was
transmitted and 10 bytes received. Tx will store 20, rx will
store 10 and systime will store 5. This function copes with wrap
arounds by the O/S so should be seemless to use.
.SH RETURN\ VALUES
All network statistics return a pointer to a structure of type
sg_network_io_stats.
.PP
.nf

typedef struct{
        char *interface_name;
        long long tx;
        long long rx;
        long long ipackets;
        long long opackets;
        long long ierrors;
        long long oerrors;
        long long collisions;
        time_t systime;
}sg_network_io_stats;
    
.fi
.TP 
interface_name  
The name known to the operating system.
(eg. on linux it might be eth0)
.TP 
tx  
The number of bytes transmitted.
.TP 
rx  
The number of bytes received.
.TP 
ipackets  
The number of packets received.
.TP 
opackets  
The number of packets transmitted.
.TP 
ierrors  
The number of receive errors.
.TP 
oerrors  
The number of transmit errors.
.TP 
collisions  
The number of collisions.
.TP 
systime  
The time period over which tx
and rx were transferred.
.SH BUGS
On the very first call
sg_get_network_io_stats_diff will return the same
as sg_get_network_io_stats. After the first call
it will always return the difference.
.PP
On operating system that hold only 32bits of data there is a
problem if the values wrap twice. For example, on Solaris 7 if
9GB is transferred and the operating system wraps at 4GB, the
sg_get_network_io_stats_diff function will return
5GB.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\fBstatgrab\fR(3)
.SH WEBSITE
http://www.i\-scream.org/libstatgrab/
