.TH sg_get_network_iface_stats 3 $Date:\ 2005/07/13\ 09:31:53\ $ i\-scream 
.SH NAME
sg_get_network_iface_stats \- get network interface statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <statgrab.h>
.fi
.sp 1
.PP
sg_network_iface_stats *\fIsg_get_network_iface_stats\fR(int *\fIentries\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The sg_get_network_iface_stats function
takes a pointer to an int, entries,
which is filled with the number of network interfaces the
machine has. This is needed to know how many
sg_network_iface_stats structures have
been returned. A pointer is returned to the first
sg_network_iface_stats.
.PP
sg_get_network_iface_stats returns statistics
about the network interfaces in the machine. Specifically,
it returns the speed of the interface, the duplex state, and
whether it is currently up.
.SH RETURN\ VALUES
The sg_get_network_iface_stats returns a
pointer to a structure of type
sg_network_iface_stats.
.PP
.nf

typedef enum{
        SG_IFACE_DUPLEX_FULL,
        SG_IFACE_DUPLEX_HALF,
        SG_IFACE_DUPLEX_UNKNOWN
}sg_iface_duplex;
    
.fi
.PP
Note: The SG_IFACE_DUPLEX_UNKNOWN
value could mean that duplex hasn't been negotiated yet.
.PP
.nf

typedef struct{
        char *interface_name;
        int speed;
        sg_iface_duplex duplex;
        int up;
}sg_network_iface_stats;
    
.fi
.TP 
interface_name  
The name known to the operating system.
(eg. on linux it might be eth0)
.TP 
speed  
The speed of the interface, in megabits/sec.
.TP 
duplex  
The duplex state the interface is in. See sg_iface_duplex
for permitted values.
.TP 
up  
Whether the interface is up.
.SH SEE\ ALSO
\fBstatgrab\fR(3)
.SH WEBSITE
http://www.i\-scream.org/libstatgrab/
