.TH ldns 3 "30 May 2006"
.SH NAME
ldns_dane_verify, ldns_dane_verify_rr

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdint.h>
.br
#include <stdbool.h>
.br
.PP
#include <ldns/ldns.h>
.PP
ldns_status ldns_dane_verify(ldns_rr_list* tlsas, X509* cert, STACK_OF(X509)* extra_certs, X509_STORE* pkix_validation_store);
.PP
ldns_status ldns_dane_verify_rr(const ldns_rr* tlsa_rr, X509* cert, STACK_OF(X509)* extra_certs, X509_STORE* pkix_validation_store);
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.HP
\fIldns_dane_verify\fR()
Verify if any of the given \%TLSA resource records matches the given
certificate.

\.br
\fBtlsas\fR: The resource records that specify what and how to
match the certificate. One must match for this function
to succeed. With tlsas == \%NULL or the number of \%TLSA records
in tlsas == 0, regular \%PKIX validation is performed.
\.br
\fBcert\fR: The certificate to match (and validate)
\.br
\fBextra_certs\fR: Intermediate certificates that might be necessary
creating the validation chain.
\.br
\fBpkix_validation_store\fR: Used when the certificate usage is 
"\%CA constraint" or "Service Certificate Constraint" to 
validate the certificate.

\.br
Returns \%LDNS_STATUS_OK on success,
\%LDNS_STATUS_DANE_PKIX_DID_NOT_VALIDATE when one of the \%TLSA's
matched but the \%PKIX validation failed,
\%LDNS_STATUS_DANE_TLSA_DID_NOT_MATCH when none of the \%TLSA's matched,
or other ldns_status errors.
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_dane_verify_rr\fR()
Verify if the given \%TLSA resource record matches the given certificate.
Reporting on a \%TLSA rr mismatch (\%LDNS_STATUS_DANE_TLSA_DID_NOT_MATCH)
is preferred over \%PKIX failure  (\%LDNS_STATUS_DANE_PKIX_DID_NOT_VALIDATE).
So when \%PKIX validation is required by the \%TLSA Certificate usage,
but the \%TLSA data does not match, \%LDNS_STATUS_DANE_TLSA_DID_NOT_MATCH
is returned whether the \%PKIX validated or not.

\.br
\fBtlsa_rr\fR: The resource record that specifies what and how to
match the certificate. With tlsa_rr == \%NULL, regular \%PKIX
validation is performed.
\.br
\fBcert\fR: The certificate to match (and validate)
\.br
\fBextra_certs\fR: Intermediate certificates that might be necessary
creating the validation chain.
\.br
\fBpkix_validation_store\fR: Used when the certificate usage is 
"\%CA constraint" or "Service Certificate Constraint" to 
validate the certificate.

\.br
Returns \%LDNS_STATUS_OK on success,
\%LDNS_STATUS_DANE_TLSA_DID_NOT_MATCH on \%TLSA data mismatch,
\%LDNS_STATUS_DANE_PKIX_DID_NOT_VALIDATE when \%TLSA matched,
but the \%PKIX validation failed, or other ldns_status errors.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
The ldns team at NLnet Labs. Which consists out of
Jelte Jansen and Miek Gieben.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs to ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl or in 
our bugzilla at
http://www.nlnetlabs.nl/bugs/index.html

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2004 - 2006 NLnet Labs.
.PP
Licensed under the BSD License. There is NO warranty; not even for
MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIldns_dane_create_tlsa_owner\fR, \fIldns_dane_cert2rdf\fR, \fIldns_dane_select_certificate\fR, \fIldns_dane_create_tlsa_rr\fR.
And \fBperldoc Net::DNS\fR, \fBRFC1034\fR,
\fBRFC1035\fR, \fBRFC4033\fR, \fBRFC4034\fR  and \fBRFC4035\fR.
.SH REMARKS
This manpage was automaticly generated from the ldns source code by
use of Doxygen and some perl.
