.TH ldns 3 "30 May 2006"
.SH NAME
ldns_buffer_new, ldns_buffer_new_frm_data, ldns_buffer_clear, ldns_buffer_printf, ldns_buffer_free, ldns_buffer_export

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdint.h>
.br
#include <stdbool.h>
.br
.PP
#include <ldns/ldns.h>
.PP
ldns_buffer* ldns_buffer_new(size_t capacity);
.PP
void ldns_buffer_new_frm_data(ldns_buffer *buffer, void *data, size_t size);
.PP
void ldns_buffer_clear(ldns_buffer *buffer);
.PP
int ldns_buffer_printf(ldns_buffer *buffer, const char *format, ...);
.PP
void ldns_buffer_free(ldns_buffer *buffer);
.PP
void* ldns_buffer_export(ldns_buffer *buffer);
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.HP
\fIldns_buffer_new\fR()
creates a new buffer with the specified capacity.

\.br
\fBcapacity\fR: the size (in bytes) to allocate for the buffer
\.br
Returns the created buffer
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_buffer_new_frm_data\fR()
creates a buffer with the specified data.  The data \%IS copied
and \%MEMORY allocations are done.  The buffer is not fixed and can
be resized using buffer_reserve().

\.br
\fBbuffer\fR: pointer to the buffer to put the data in
\.br
\fBdata\fR: the data to encapsulate in the buffer
\.br
\fBsize\fR: the size of the data
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_buffer_clear\fR()
clears the buffer and make it ready for writing.  The buffer's limit
is set to the capacity and the position is set to 0.
\.br
\fBbuffer\fR: the buffer to clear
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_buffer_printf\fR()
prints to the buffer, increasing the capacity if required using
buffer_reserve(). The buffer's position is set to the terminating '\\\\0'
Returns the number of characters written (not including the
terminating '\\\\0') or -1 on failure.
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_buffer_free\fR()
frees the buffer.
\.br
\fB*buffer\fR: the buffer to be freed
\.br
Returns void
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_buffer_export\fR()
Makes the buffer fixed and returns a pointer to the data.  The
caller is responsible for free'ing the result.
\.br
\fB*buffer\fR: the buffer to be exported
\.br
Returns void
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
The ldns team at NLnet Labs. Which consists out of
Jelte Jansen and Miek Gieben.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs to ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl or in 
our bugzilla at
http://www.nlnetlabs.nl/bugs/index.html

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2004 - 2006 NLnet Labs.
.PP
Licensed under the BSD License. There is NO warranty; not even for
MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIldns_buffer\fR.
And \fBperldoc Net::DNS\fR, \fBRFC1034\fR,
\fBRFC1035\fR, \fBRFC4033\fR, \fBRFC4034\fR  and \fBRFC4035\fR.
.SH REMARKS
This manpage was automaticly generated from the ldns source code by
use of Doxygen and some perl.
