.TH ldns 3 "30 May 2006"
.SH NAME
ldns_buffer

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdint.h>
.br
#include <stdbool.h>
.br
.PP
#include <ldns/ldns.h>
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.HP
\fIldns_buffer\fR
.br
implementation of buffers to ease operations
.br

.br
ldns_buffers can contain arbitrary information, per octet. You can write
.br
to the current end of a buffer, read from the current position, and
.br
access any data within it.
.br

.br
Example use of buffers is in the source code of \\ref host2str.c
.br
struct ldns_struct_buffer
.br
{
.br
	\fBThe current position used for reading/writing:\fR 
.br
	size_t   _position;
.br

.br
	\fBThe read/write limit:\fR
.br
	size_t   _limit;
.br

.br
	\fBThe amount of data the buffer can contain:\fR
.br
	size_t   _capacity;
.br

.br
	\fBThe data contained in the buffer:\fR
.br
	uint8_t *_data;
.br

.br
	\fBIf the buffer is fixed it cannot be resized:\fR
.br
	unsigned _fixed : 1;
.br

.br
	/** The current state of the buffer. If writing to the buffer fails
.br
	 * for any reason, this value is changed. This way, you can perform
.br
	 * multiple writes in sequence and check for success afterwards. */
.br
	ldns_status _status;
.br
};
.br
typedef struct ldns_struct_buffer ldns_buffer;
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
The ldns team at NLnet Labs. Which consists out of
Jelte Jansen and Miek Gieben.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs to ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl or in 
our bugzilla at
http://www.nlnetlabs.nl/bugs/index.html

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2004 - 2006 NLnet Labs.
.PP
Licensed under the BSD License. There is NO warranty; not even for
MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIldns_buffer_new\fR, \fIldns_buffer_new_frm_data\fR, \fIldns_buffer_clear\fR, \fIldns_buffer_printf\fR, \fIldns_buffer_free\fR, \fIldns_buffer_export\fR, \fIldns_buffer_flip\fR, \fIldns_buffer_rewind\fR, \fIldns_buffer_position\fR, \fIldns_buffer_set_position\fR, \fIldns_buffer_skip\fR, \fIldns_buffer_limit\fR, \fIldns_buffer_set_limit\fR, \fIldns_buffer_capacity\fR, \fIldns_buffer_set_capacity\fR, \fIldns_buffer_reserve\fR, \fIldns_buffer_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_begin\fR, \fIldns_buffer_end\fR, \fIldns_buffer_current\fR, \fIldns_buffer_remaining_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_remaining\fR, \fIldns_buffer_available_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_available\fR, \fIldns_buffer_status\fR, \fIldns_buffer_status_ok\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write_string_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write_string\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write_u8_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write_u8\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write_u16_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_write_u16\fR, \fIldns_buffer_read_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_read\fR, \fIldns_buffer_read_u8_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_read_u8\fR, \fIldns_buffer_read_u16_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_read_u16\fR, \fIldns_buffer_read_u32_at\fR, \fIldns_buffer_read_u32\fR.
And \fBperldoc Net::DNS\fR, \fBRFC1034\fR,
\fBRFC1035\fR, \fBRFC4033\fR, \fBRFC4034\fR  and \fBRFC4035\fR.
.SH REMARKS
This manpage was automaticly generated from the ldns source code by
use of Doxygen and some perl.
