.TH ldns 3 "30 May 2006"
.SH NAME
ldns_rr_print, ldns_rdf_print, ldns_pkt_print, ldns_rr_list_print, ldns_resolver_print, ldns_zone_print

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <stdint.h>
.br
#include <stdbool.h>
.br
.PP
#include <ldns/ldns.h>
.PP
void ldns_rr_print(FILE *output, const ldns_rr *rr);
.PP
void ldns_rdf_print(FILE *output, const ldns_rdf *rdf);
.PP
void ldns_pkt_print(FILE *output, const ldns_pkt *pkt);
.PP
void ldns_rr_list_print(FILE *output, const ldns_rr_list *list);
.PP
void ldns_resolver_print(FILE *output, const ldns_resolver *r);
.PP
void ldns_zone_print(FILE *output, const ldns_zone *z);
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.HP
\fIldns_rr_print\fR()
Prints the data in the resource record to the given file stream
(in presentation format)

\.br
\fBoutput\fR: the file stream to print to
\.br
\fBrr\fR: the resource record to print
\.br
Returns void
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_rdf_print\fR()
Prints the data in the rdata field to the given file stream
(in presentation format)

\.br
\fBoutput\fR: the file stream to print to
\.br
\fBrdf\fR: the rdata field to print
\.br
Returns void
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_pkt_print\fR()
Prints the data in the \%DNS packet to the given file stream
(in presentation format)

\.br
\fBoutput\fR: the file stream to print to
\.br
\fBpkt\fR: the packet to print
\.br
Returns void
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_rr_list_print\fR()
print a rr_list to output
\.br
\fBoutput\fR: the fd to print to
\.br
\fBlist\fR: the rr_list to print
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_resolver_print\fR()
Print a resolver (in sofar that is possible) state
to output.
\.br
\fBoutput\fR: the fd to print to
\.br
\fBr\fR: the resolver to print
.PP
.HP
\fIldns_zone_print\fR()
Print a zone structure * to output. Note the \%SOA record
is included in this output
\.br
\fBoutput\fR: the fd to print to
\.br
\fBz\fR: the zone to print
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
The ldns team at NLnet Labs. Which consists out of
Jelte Jansen and Miek Gieben.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs to ldns-team@nlnetlabs.nl or in 
our bugzilla at
http://www.nlnetlabs.nl/bugs/index.html

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2004 - 2006 NLnet Labs.
.PP
Licensed under the BSD License. There is NO warranty; not even for
MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIldns_rr2str\fR, \fIldns_rdf2str\fR, \fIldns_pkt2str\fR, \fIldns_rr_list2str\fR, \fIldns_key2str\fR.
And \fBperldoc Net::DNS\fR, \fBRFC1034\fR,
\fBRFC1035\fR, \fBRFC4033\fR, \fBRFC4034\fR  and \fBRFC4035\fR.
.SH REMARKS
This manpage was automaticly generated from the ldns source code by
use of Doxygen and some perl.
